interviewer: ok so, can you please go into the link I've provided you in the chat, and load the link and share your screen?
P1: yeah ok. (P1 load traveler), what do you need to do me now?
interviewer: can you please share your screen? I think I already enabled that, so you should be able to. you can see that there is a green button at the bottom here in zoom. ooh ok (P1 shared her screen). Thank you. ok so, so you can see that so this dataset is generated from an HPX program running kmeans algorithm in 16 cores. so right, you can take couple of minutes to explore this dataset and see what is going on with this dataset, of course you can ask me any questions if you like. **trials: E1**
P1: ok. so what do you mean the utilization. whats the unit of it?
interviewer: ok so this is the number of CPU cores is being utililized at that particular time. ok so since we are using 16 cores, so here you can see that it has at most the number is 2, in the y-axis, it basically means that among the whole utilization there is atmost at a time 2 CPUs is being utilized, among the 16 CPUs.
interviewer: so another thing is that, you can scroll up to zoom in and scroll down to zoom in in the gantt view also. so you can see that there is couple of smaller bars here, we call these interval bars. so thats why you see, there are very smaller ones, if you zoom in more, you can see the interval bars more clearly. (P1 starts scrolling in the gantt view)
P1: oh they are changed at the same time (pointed to utilization view and gantt view). this two graph
interviewer: yeah, exactly. yeah. you can click and drag (P1 clicked on the gantt view and started dragging) yeah, you can see that, yeah. 
P1: what do you want me to do.
observer: another thing is that if you wanna zoom in quickly you can take that gray box on the top view, and take the edges and just make them smaller and that will make the window on the bottom bigger. 
interviewer: oh ok. 
observer: I meant the one at the utilization view, you see the gray box at the top?
P1: so how do you explain, this bar is so dark (pointed to 0-T15 row in gantt view) and they have many intervals (ponted to other locations in gantt). 
interviewer: so the things is that, there is very smaller interval bars here so since you are in a zoomed-out state so thats why you are seeing a longer single longer bars, so I would suggest if you notice that in the utilization view so there is a gray box, so in the upper left portion, in the utilization view, so if you like drag the border of the box, then it will, then you can like zoom in more faster. 
observer: ok so you are in the gantt view right now, right, so if you go up right on top of it, the utilization view, go up further, further up, further up into the next view, not within that tab, in the in the other chart, ok so move your mouse up another couple of centimeters, without touching anything just move the where is your cursor is up. so see where is the source file?
P1: where is the source file?
observer: so do you see the text that says source files? alright now go to the left, ok yeah, so see this is the gray thing here, if you go to the side of it where the line is, yeah ok if you hover over the line, thats at the end of the gray box, now drag that, if you drag that in it becomes a lot smaller. then you can view that to alright. 
P1: thank you, thank you so much. 
observer: and you can drag the other side of the box too. so you can get a really small view that way. 
P1: I think this branch, joins.
interviewer: so the bars in the utilization view, if you like drag them to very close to each other, it will be very high level zoomed in state, then you can start to see that, the smaller lines in the gantt view will be bigger and they will appear as an interval bar. so, if you click on the interval bar on the gantt view you can see that, you can see its details. in the top right you can see that it's primitive name, and its other metadata information. 
P1: so this lines represents dependency right?
interviewer: dependency yeah. so, if you feel more comfortable with the dataset, I would like to go to the next task. 
P1: ok.
interviewer:  can you locate the longest interval bar here? let me give you a hint. you can load up the interval histogram view, from the hamburger menu at the top left, (P1 brought the interval histogram view and tried to click on the right most bar) so, the click on the interval histogram view doesnt work. you have to like click and drag to draw the, draw a rectangle highlighting, horizontally yeah, if you go into the interval histogram view, like if you click in the blank space and start dragging, then it will start drawing a, yeah like this. (P1 tried to draw a smaller highlight in the interval histogram view). You can drag a longer one also, as long as the bar is being yeah, you can see that its getting highlighted in the. **trials: E2**
(P1 found out the primitve 'run_as_hpx_thread', hovered her mouse and said) P1: this one? **E2: done with help**
interviewer: yes, ok cool. and then I am moving on to the next task. can you find the primitive with the highest occurence in terms of total execution time?  **trials: E3**
P1: sorry I didn't get it. **threats: cannot understand the trial**
interviewer: so can you find a primitive, you see that, when you selected this interval bar, you see its primitive name in the top right, its primitive name is run_as_hpx_thread. so right now your task is to, so you can see that there is like many primitive here right? so you have to find out the primitive which has highest occurence in the total execution. so did you understand my task?
P1: No
interviewer: so the interval histogram view is showing you the lenght of a specific task. since you already found out the longest one by using the interval histogram view, ok so you can utilize the dependency tree view to find out that one. you can find out the dependency tree view from the hamburger menu in the top left. 
observer: you can also close some of the other views, if you are not using them to have more space or drag things on top of each other. 
P1: Now I am kind of consuing how to find. is this one no? (clicked on the run_helper node)
interviewer: ok I actually did show you a feature, if you click on the thereis like a triangle, besides each node, if you click on that, then it will like collapse the whole tree. then it will also be easier for you to visualize the whole tree at a time. if you click on a specific triangle, you see there is like a smaller triangle here , (P1 hover over a triangle) yeah, if you click on this, it will collapse yeah like this. (P1 collapsed it then closed the task dependency tree and start navigating in the interval histogram view, clicked on the drop down menu and choosed all primitives)
P1: so how can I find it out?
interviewer: so in the umm, task dependency tree, if you bring it, so you see that, the nodes are colored coded here, so the nodes are color coded depending on their occurences in terms of total execution time, so you highlighted one of them, but there is couple of others in the bottom part of that tree, if you scroll down you might see some couple ones with darker shade of purple, it will be better if you like collapse the tree then, you see that the top one, all of has like lighter purple, right now definietly the most occured primitive doesn't exist here okay, then you can like collapse the whole subtree, in this node rooted at run_helper. then you can consequently start, browsing the other nodes also and see that if its there or not. ok so let me walk you through it, you see that, the triangle in the top left, click that one yeah, so you can click on the triangle again, then scroll a little bit, yeah, so yeah click this one, it will make the tree more smaller (walking through collapsing the whole tree), I think you should click on the left most one here, I think we dont have, ok, you see that yeah, the tree is little bit smaller now, and now you can see the one with the highest occurence ok. I think we should move on. I think in this case the tree was little bit bigger thats why it was harder to find the perfect one. your next task is to highlight at which portion of time, the CPU utilization is higher, and your first task is that, and what is the related primitive. yeah you need to bring the gantt timeline here also, for that, (P1 tried to find the PAPI counters) I dont think you need to bring the PAPI counters for this task now, I dont think you need to do this, your first task is to find out the highest number of cpu utilization, so the PAPI_TOT_CYC is actually the total cycle, so at the top left you see the CPU utilization view, you can track the CPU utilization in that chart. **E3: unsuccessful**
P1: where is the CPU chart
interviewer: the top left one, it says utilization view, just locate where the utilization is highest, **trials: E4**
P1: (pointing between the 1M ns and 1.5M ns) here?
interviewer: yeah this portion of the utilization ok, and then right now the related primitive. if you highlight that part portion, you can see the executions in the gantt view, just click and drag over this portion. yes like this. you can see the intervals in the gantt view. if you click on any of the interval bar in the gantt view, then you can see their related primitive name and also by tracking their parents you will find out the responsible primitive, for this utilization, you see there is like a yellow line. I think we can, we are at a time. I just have couple of last questions about your experiene using this Traveler platform. so which of the view you think was most helpful to know the executions. **E4: partially, just highest util not primitive**
P1: whats the questions?
interviewer: you see there is couple of interfaces here, which of these interface helped you most to parform a sepecific task **interview: I1**
P1: ooh I think the, to me the, I think the function division are clear but I am not very familiar so I think its very easy to handle but I actually need to learn by myself to take times more I think. **I1: I cant tell, I have to learn by myself**
interviewer: so do you have any like additional proposal we could add here? so some kind of additional feature we could add here to make your task easier? **interview: I4**
P1: ok just informal a lazy workeraround plus does it capture some significant features automatically like it is able to put all the elapsed time, top hardware pause, cpu metrices, perfomrnae information, this information together and just report it to the user. Yeah this is what I am thinking about more. **I4: hardware performance info report to user**
interviewer: do you, I think you already mentioned that, but have you ever used any other performance visualization tool like this before? **interview: I3**
P1: No, I just heard about VTune, but I haven't used that. **I3: no**
interviewer: ok, do you have any last comment on this? **interview: I6**
P1: I think its also, yeah, because I have no experience about this programs anlayzation tool also I think its good enough for me to do the performance analysis. yeah. **I6: good enough for me to do the performance analysis**
interviewer: ok cool. so can you please tell me about your experience working with HPX. **interview: I5**
P1: I think I have no.
observer: how long have you been working with [redacted] (runtime team leader name), 
P1: just 1 year, and this is the third semester working with [redacted] (runtime team leader name) and I just do the algorithm performance measurement work now. **I5: None, H-1year**
observer: ok.
inerviewer: ok then, thank you so I think that's all for this evaluation session.
observer: ok [redacted] (interviewer) will follow up with you so that we can know where to send your gift card. 
P1: yeah, I should have explore it myself more, because I want to use this tool for my experiment. 
observer: thats great, we are always looking for people who want to try using it and we are happy to help out. 
P1: thats great thank you 
interviewer: thank you so much. I am going to stop recording.